# randomwalk

I am investigating a random walk in which a particle moves up and down a number line based on a given probability. I wanted to understand the impact of these probabilities on the long-term behavior of the random walk (the final number on the number line reached). For example, if 100 random walks were simulated with a 50% chance of moving right and 50% chance of moving left, what would be the median outcome? What happens when that probability changes? The two most probable outcomes would be that either the probability has small or little change on the median average of the random walk list, or that the probability has a major impact on the median average. I assumed that the relationship between the probabilities and the final number would be quadratic, since the prediction I made was that the final number for a 100% move right probability compared to a 70% move right probability would be incredibly different, and this could likely be explained by the probabilities and final numbers having a quadratic relationship. My program uses loops and generated random numbers to simulate the random walk and discern the median, which will give us the most accurate representation of the random walks. The reasoning behind using the median as opposed to the mean is that one smaller or larger outlier can throw off the data, but the mean is still included in the code to see how accurate the mean is when compared to the median. Testing of the code showed a clear correlation between the probability and the overall median final number. When increasing the probability of moving right and thereby decreasing the probability of moving left, the outcome would increase. When decreasing the probability of moving right and increasing the probability of moving left, the outcome would decrease, usually into the negatives. A 50% chance of moving both sides usually resulted in a final number close to 0. The relationship between the probability of the movements and the final number was linear. Some further improvements could be made by directly graphing the data using matplotlib within the code, so that it would be more efficient and more visual to a user.
